---
layout: post
title: 'LeetCode 08. String to Integer (atoi)'
subtitle: 'LeetCode题解'
author: 'silencelee'
date: 2020-03-30
categories: algorithm
tags: algorithm atoi simulate
---

## 08. String to Integer (atoi) 题解

Implement atoi which converts a string to an integer.

The function first discards as many whitespace characters as necessary until the first non-whitespace character is found. Then, starting from this character, takes an optional initial plus or minus sign followed by as many numerical digits as possible, and interprets them as a numerical value.

The string can contain additional characters after those that form the integral number, which are ignored and have no effect on the behavior of this function.

If the first sequence of non-whitespace characters in str is not a valid integral number, or if no such sequence exists because either str is empty or it contains only whitespace characters, no conversion is performed.

If no valid conversion could be performed, a zero value is returned.

Note:

1. Only the space character ' ' is considered as whitespace character.
2. Assume we are dealing with an environment which could only store integers within the 32-bit signed integer range: [$2^{31}$,  $2^{31} − 1$]. If the numerical value is out of the range of representable values, INT_MAX ($2^{31} − 1$) or INT_MIN ($−2^{31}$) is returned.

Example 1:

> Input: "42"  
Output: 42

Example 2:

> Input: "   -42"  
Output: -42  
Explanation: The first non-whitespace character is '-', which is the minus sign.Then take as many numerical digits as possible, which gets 42.


Example 3:

> Input: "4193 with words"  
Output: 4193  
Explanation: Conversion stops at digit '3' as the next character is not a numerical digit.

Example 4:

> Input: "words and 987"  
Output: 0  
Explanation: The first non-whitespace character is 'w', which is not a numerical digit or a +/- sign. Therefore no valid conversion could be performed.


Example 5:

> Input: "-91283472332"  
Output: -2147483648  
Explanation: The number "-91283472332" is out of the range of a 32-bit signed integer.Thefore INT_MIN ($−2^{31}$) is returned


## 题解思路 模拟

 题意是让我们实现一下atoi，思路好像也没啥可说的，照着描述模拟一遍就成了，记得开始long long存数据，因为可能爆int，然后边界各种坑，反正发现提交不过就把限制条件加上就是了，代码如下：

## code
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int myAtoi(string str)
    {
        long long res = 0;

        int k = 0;
        while (k < str.size() && str[k] == ' ') ++k;
        if (k == str.size()) return 0;

        int minus = 1;
        if (str[k] == '-') {
            minus = -1;
            ++k;
        }

        if (str[k] == '+') {
            if (minus == -1) return 0;
            ++k;
        }

        while (k < str.size() && str[k] >= '0' && str[k] <= '9') {
            res = res * 10 + (str[k] - '0');
            ++k;
            if (res > INT_MAX) break;
        }

        res *= minus;
        if (res < INT_MIN) res = INT_MIN;
        if (res > INT_MAX) res = INT_MAX;
        return res;
    }
};
```
